man/OPTUM_EXTENDED/ETL_v5.0.1/condition_occurrence.md, before:

*Common Data Model ETL Mapping Specification for Optum Extended SES & Extended DOD* 
<br>*CDM Version = 5.0.1, Clinformatics Version = v7.0*
<br>*Authors: Qianli Ma; Erica Voss, Chris Knoll, Ajit Londhe, Clair Blacketer (Janssen)*

[Back to README](README.md)

---

# CDM Table: CONDITION_OCCURRENCE

Condition data can be found in the medical claim table and should be
created when building VISIT_OCCURRENCE table.

**Key conventions:**

-   Starts from the **TEMP_MEDICAL** table generated throughout the
    VISIT_OCCURRENCE creation.

-   Remove duplicates existing from DIAG1 through DIAG25: if same ICD
    code exists in more than one position, keep only the one with lowest
    position number (e.g. if 30750 exists in DIAG1 and DIAG2, then keep
    only 30750 in DIAG1)

-   The ICD_FLAG field defines if the claim is using ICD9 or ICD10.

    1.  If ICD_FLAG is 9, then use VOCABULARY_ID = 'ICD9CM'

    2.  If ICD_FLAG is 10, then use VOCABULARY_ID = 'ICD10CM'

-   Optum removes decimal points from ICD diagnoses so when mapping to
    the OMOP Vocabulary, the decimal points need to also be removed from
    the vocabulary in order to map between the source and
    the vocabulary.

-   Always assign its associated VISIT_START_DATE as
    CONDITION_START_DATE, and use NEW_PROV and NEW_PROVCAT (refer to
    VISIT_OCCURRENCE section) to extract its ASSOCIATED_PROVIDER_ID
    from the *PROVIDER* table.

-   Remove duplicate records before assigning CONDITION_OCCURRENCE_ID.

<a name="table-mappings-condition-occurrence"></a>

**Destination Field**|**Source Field**|**Applied Rule**|**Comment**
:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
CONDITION_OCCURRENCE_ID|-|System generated.| 
PERSON_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL** PATID/PAT_PLANID|At the row level we work with PAT_PLANID, but PATID is what is written to the CDM.| 
CONDITION_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL** DIAG1-25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|DIAG1-DIAG25: Use [Source to Standard Terminology](code_snippets.md#source-to-standard-terminology) and filter with [Concept Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields) PROC1-PROC3, PROC_CD:<br>Use [Source to Standard Terminology](code_snippets.md#source-to-standard-terminology) and filter with [Concept Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields)| 
CONDITION_START_DATE|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** VISIT_START_DATE| | 
CONDITION_END_DATE|-|NULL| 
CONDITION_TYPE_CONCEPT_ID|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** PLACE_OF_SERVICE_SOURCE_VALUE|**DIAG1-DIAG25**: Use [Concept Type Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields-1) <br> PROC1-3, PROC_CD Use [Concept Type Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields-1)|If same ICD code exists in more than one position, keep only the one with lowest position number. <br> Map to inpatient/outpatient header to be consistent with PROCEDURE_OCCURRENCE table. <br> These CONCEPT_IDs fall under VOCABULARY_ID = 'Condition Type' in CONCEPT table.
STOP_REASON|-|NULL| 
PROVIDER_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>NEW_PROV, NEW_PROVCAT|Map NEW_PROV and NEW_PROVCAT to PROVIDER_SOURCE_VALUE and SPECIALTY_SOURCE_VALUE in Provider table to extract its associated Provider ID. | 
VISIT_OCCURRENCE_ID|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** VISIT_OCCURRENCE_ID| | 
CONDITION_STATUS_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>POA, DIAG1-DIAG25 | Split POA, a period-delimited string, to obtain single character value corresponding to DIAG code by ordinal value. Map character using the following:<br><br>N = 0<br>U = 0<br>W = 46236988<br>Y = 46236988<br>|
CONDITION_SOURCE_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>DIAG1-DIAG25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|**DIAG1-DIAG25**: Use [Source to Source](code_snippets.md#source-to-source) and filter with [Source Concept Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields-2) <br><br> PROC_CD, PROC1-3: Use [Source to Source](code_snippets.md#source-to-source) and filter with [Source Concept Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields-2)| 
CONDITION_SOURCE_VALUE|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>DIAG1-DIAG25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|Exclude records with invalid ICD9 or ICD10 diagnosis codes.|Use rules mentioned above to exclude invalid ICD9 or ICD10 diagnosis codes.|
CONDITION_SOURCE_VALUE|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>POA, DIAG1-DIAG25|Split POA, a period-delimited string, to obtain single character value corresponding to DIAG code by ordinal value.|

Commit message:

Added code snippet for POA to CONDITION_STATUS_CONCEPT_ID

man/OPTUM_EXTENDED/ETL_v5.0.1/condition_occurrence.md, after:

*Common Data Model ETL Mapping Specification for Optum Extended SES & Extended DOD* 
<br>*CDM Version = 5.0.1, Clinformatics Version = v7.0*
<br>*Authors: Qianli Ma; Erica Voss, Chris Knoll, Ajit Londhe, Clair Blacketer (Janssen)*

[Back to README](README.md)

---

# CDM Table: CONDITION_OCCURRENCE

Condition data can be found in the medical claim table and should be
created when building VISIT_OCCURRENCE table.

**Key conventions:**

-   Starts from the **TEMP_MEDICAL** table generated throughout the
    VISIT_OCCURRENCE creation.

-   Remove duplicates existing from DIAG1 through DIAG25: if same ICD
    code exists in more than one position, keep only the one with lowest
    position number (e.g. if 30750 exists in DIAG1 and DIAG2, then keep
    only 30750 in DIAG1)

-   The ICD_FLAG field defines if the claim is using ICD9 or ICD10.

    1.  If ICD_FLAG is 9, then use VOCABULARY_ID = 'ICD9CM'

    2.  If ICD_FLAG is 10, then use VOCABULARY_ID = 'ICD10CM'

-   Optum removes decimal points from ICD diagnoses so when mapping to
    the OMOP Vocabulary, the decimal points need to also be removed from
    the vocabulary in order to map between the source and
    the vocabulary.

-   Always assign its associated VISIT_START_DATE as
    CONDITION_START_DATE, and use NEW_PROV and NEW_PROVCAT (refer to
    VISIT_OCCURRENCE section) to extract its ASSOCIATED_PROVIDER_ID
    from the *PROVIDER* table.

-   Remove duplicate records before assigning CONDITION_OCCURRENCE_ID.


**Destination Field**|**Source Field**|**Applied Rule**|**Comment**
:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
CONDITION_OCCURRENCE_ID|-|System generated.| 
PERSON_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL** PATID/PAT_PLANID|At the row level we work with PAT_PLANID, but PATID is what is written to the CDM.| 
CONDITION_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL** DIAG1-25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|DIAG1-DIAG25: Use [Source to Standard Terminology](code_snippets.md#source-to-standard-terminology) and filter with [Concept Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields) PROC1-PROC3, PROC_CD:<br>Use [Source to Standard Terminology](code_snippets.md#source-to-standard-terminology) and filter with [Concept Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields)| 
CONDITION_START_DATE|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** VISIT_START_DATE| | 
CONDITION_END_DATE|-|NULL| 
CONDITION_TYPE_CONCEPT_ID|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** PLACE_OF_SERVICE_SOURCE_VALUE|**DIAG1-DIAG25**: Use [Concept Type Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields-1) <br> PROC1-3, PROC_CD Use [Concept Type Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields-1)|If same ICD code exists in more than one position, keep only the one with lowest position number. <br> Map to inpatient/outpatient header to be consistent with PROCEDURE_OCCURRENCE table. <br> These CONCEPT_IDs fall under VOCABULARY_ID = 'Condition Type' in CONCEPT table.
STOP_REASON|-|NULL| 
PROVIDER_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>NEW_PROV, NEW_PROVCAT|Map NEW_PROV and NEW_PROVCAT to PROVIDER_SOURCE_VALUE and SPECIALTY_SOURCE_VALUE in Provider table to extract its associated Provider ID. | 
VISIT_OCCURRENCE_ID|**VISIT_OCCURRENCE** VISIT_OCCURRENCE_ID| | 
CONDITION_STATUS_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>POA, DIAG1-DIAG25 | Use [POA to CONDITION_STATUS_CONCEPT_ID](code_snippets.md#poa-to-condition-status-concept-id) to parse POA string. Then, map POA character using the following:<br><br>N = 0<br>U = 0<br>W = 46236988<br>Y = 46236988<br>|
CONDITION_SOURCE_CONCEPT_ID|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>DIAG1-DIAG25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|**DIAG1-DIAG25**: Use [Source to Source](code_snippets.md#source-to-source) and filter with [Source Concept Ids from Medical Claims Diagnosis Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-diagnosis-fields-2) <br><br> PROC_CD, PROC1-3: Use [Source to Source](code_snippets.md#source-to-source) and filter with [Source Concept Ids from Medical Claims Procedure Fields](code_snippets.md#from-medical-claims-procedure-fields-2)| 
CONDITION_SOURCE_VALUE|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>DIAG1-DIAG25, PROC_CD, PROC1-3|Exclude records with invalid ICD9 or ICD10 diagnosis codes.|Use rules mentioned above to exclude invalid ICD9 or ICD10 diagnosis codes.|
CONDITION_SOURCE_VALUE|**TEMP_MEDICAL**<br>POA, DIAG1-DIAG25|Use [POA to CONDITION_STATUS_CONCEPT_ID](code_snippets.md#poa-to-condition-status-concept-id) to parse POA string.|
